[DX-1644] Dashboard 5.6.0 release notes (#5319)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-dashboard/release-notes/version-5.6.md

---
title: Tyk Dashboard 5.6 Release Notes

> date: 2024-03-27T15:51:11Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-10-09T15:51:11Z
```

> date: 2024-10-09T15:51:11Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-10-08T15:51:11Z
```

description: "Release notes documenting updates, enhancements, and changes for Tyk Dashboard versions within the 5.6.X series."
tags: ["Tyk Dashboard", "Release notes", "v5.6", "5.6.0", "5.6", "changelog"]
---
<!-- Required. oss or licensed. Choose one of the following:
    **Licensed Protected Product**
    Or
    ****Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))**
-->

**This page contains all release notes for version 5.6.X displayed in a reverse chronological order**

## Support Lifetime

Our minor releases are supported until our next minor comes out.

---
## 5.6.0 Release Notes

> ### Release Date xxx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Release Date 10 October 2024
```

| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)         | 12.x - 16.x LTS        | 12.x - 16.x            | Used by Tyk Dashboard | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3) | v3.0.x      | v3.0.x          | Supported by [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc" >}})|

### Deprecations
<!-- Required. Use the following statement if there are no deprecations, or explain if there are -->
There are no deprecations in this release.
<!-- Optional section!
Used to share and notify users about our plan to deprecate features, configs etc.
Once you put an item in this section, we must keep this item listed in all the following releases till the deprecation happens. -->
<!-- ##### Future deprecations
-->
### Upgrade instructions {#upgrade-5.6.0}
If you are upgrading to 5.6.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk). 

### Downloads
- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.6.0)
- ```bash
  docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.6.0
  ```
- Helm charts

>   - [tyk-charts v2.1.0]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-2.1">}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [tyk-charts v2.1.0]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-2.1.md">}})
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary>Renamed GraphQL "Playground" tab to "Playgrounds"</summary>

The "Playground" tab in the GraphQL API Designer has been renamed to "Playgrounds." This change consolidates access to both internal and external playgrounds within a single section, offering a more streamlined and intuitive experience for API design and testing.
</details>
</li>
</ul>

#### Fixed
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list that describes the issues fixed in the release. For each fixed issue explain:
- What problem the issue caused
- How was the issue fixed
- Link to (new) documentation created as a result of a fix. For example, a new configuration parameter may have been introduced and documented for the fix
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.
Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>

> <li>
> <details>
> 
> </details>
> </li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<!-- ##### Future deprecations
-->
### Upgrade instructions {#upgrade-5.6.0}
If you are upgrading to 5.6.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk). 

### Release Highlights
<!-- Required. Use similar ToV to previous release notes. For example for a patch release:
This release primarily focuses on bug fixes.
For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog]({{< ref "#Changelog-vX.Y.0">}}) below.
-->
We are thrilled to announce new updates and improvements in Tyk 5.6.0, bringing more control, flexibility, and performance.  For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog]({{< ref "#Changelog-v5.6.0">}}) below.

#### Per endpoint Rate Limiting for clients

We’ve introduced client-level per-endpoint rate limits. Rate limits can now be configured in security policies and keys, and are applicable to both Tyk OAS and Tyk Classic APIs, offering greater control over how resources are accessed.

#### Go upgrade to 1.22

We’ve upgraded the Tyk Gateway and Tyk Dashboard to Golang 1.22, bringing improved performance, better security, and enhanced stability to the core system.

> #### Enhanced Role-Based Access Controls (RBAC) in Tyk Dashboard

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Strengthened Role-Based Access Controls (RBAC) to combat privilege escalation risks
```

> We’ve enhanced Role-Based Access Controls (RBAC) in the Tyk Dashboard to improve security. Now, only super-admins can create new admins, admin roles can't be assigned to user groups, and password resets are limited to admin users within their organization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We’ve tightened up the rules that govern a user's ability to create admin users and to reset other users' passwords when using Tyk's RBAC function. Now, only super-admins can create new admins, admin roles can't be assigned to user groups, and only admin users can reset another user's password (and only within their Tyk Organisation).
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary>UI Update: Renamed "Playground" Tab to "Playgrounds"</summary>

The "Playground" tab in the API Designer has been renamed to "Playgrounds." This change consolidates access to both internal and external playgrounds within a single section, offering a more streamlined and intuitive experience for API design and testing.
</details>
</li>
</ul>

#### Fixed
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list that describes the issues fixed in the release. For each fixed issue explain:
- What problem the issue caused
- How was the issue fixed
- Link to (new) documentation created as a result of a fix. For example, a new configuration parameter may have been introduced and documented for the fix
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.
Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Correct Combination of Client Endpoint Rate Limits in Policies</summary>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Gateway change

> We have fixed an issue where API-level rate limits set in multiple policies were not correctly applied to the same key. With this update, when multiple policies configure rate limits for a key, the key will now receive the highest rate limit from the combined policies, ensuring proper enforcement of limits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Gateway change

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Dashboard and Postgres Average Usage Per API</summary>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<summary>Addressed some display issues in Dashboard Analytics and Classic Portal when using PostgreSQL storage</summary>
```

> - Resolved an issue where 429 status codes were not being displayed on the Activity Overview page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Resolved an issue where HTTP 429 status codes were not being displayed on the Activity Overview page.
```

> - Fixed portal graphs when using Postgres by adding a default "day" grouping resolution to the query.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed portal graphs by adding a default "day" grouping resolution to the query.
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary>UI Fix: Corrected JWT Scope to Policy Mapping in Dashboard</summary>

We have resolved an issue in the Dashboard UI where the scope name was incorrectly recorded instead of the policy ID for subsequent JWT scope mappings. The UI now accurately associates the defined scope with the correct policy, ensuring proper JWT scope to policy mappings.

</details>
</li>

</ul>

#### Security Fixes
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list that should be included when any security fixes have been made in the release, e.g. CVEs. For CVE fixes, consideration needs to be made as follows:
1. Dependency-tracked CVEs - External-tracked CVEs should be included on the release note.
2. Internal scanned CVEs - Refer to the relevant engineering and delivery policy.
For agreed CVE security fixes, provide a link to the corresponding entry on the NIST website. For example:
- Fixed the following CVEs:
    - [CVE-2022-33082](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-33082)
-->
<ul>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Strengthened ResetPassword Permission Behavior</summary>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<summary>Strengthened RBAC password reset permissions</summary>
```

> We have fixed a privilege escalation vulnerability where a user with certain permissions could potentially reset other users' passwords, including admin accounts. The following changes have been made to tighten the behavior of the ResetPassword permission within the Dashboard's Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) system:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have fixed a privilege escalation vulnerability where a user with certain permissions could potentially reset other users' passwords, including admin accounts. The following changes have been made to tighten the behavior of the password reset permission:
```

Reviewer 3: Applying wording from the 5.3.6 RN

> - Only super-admins or admins can assign admin status to a user, and this cannot be assigned to user groups.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> - All users can reset their own passwords, but resetting other users' passwords now requires a specific ResetPassword permission.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- All users can reset their own passwords
- A specific permission is required to reset the password of another user within the same Tyk Organisation
```

> - The scope of the ResetPassword permission is limited to the Tyk Organization (OrgId) for which the user is an admin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> - The ResetPassword permission can only be assigned by super-admins, directly to admin users (not user groups).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- This permission can only be assigned by an admin or super-admin
- This permission can only be assigned to an admin and cannot be assigned to a user group
```

> - The allow_admin_reset_password configuration ensures that all admin users automatically receive the ResetPassword permission.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The allow_admin_reset_password configuration option automatically grants this permission to all admin users
- Super-admins always have the password reset permission across all Tyk Organisations
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>

> <summary>Gateway Secret No Longer Logged in Dashboard Logs</summary>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<summary>Gateway secret could be exposed in debug logs</summary>
```

> We have addressed a security issue where the Gateway secret was appearing in the Dashboard system logs when the /api/keys endpoint was called while in debug mode. This fix prevents the Gateway secret from being logged, enhancing the security of your system. Please note that running in debug mode is not recommended for production environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue where the Gateway secret was inadvertently included in the log generated by the Dashboard for a call to the `/api/keys` endpoint when in debug mode. This issue has been fixed to prevent sensitive information from appearing in system logs. We do not recommend running production environments in debug mode.
```
